Gwydion Dylan 2.4.0RC1 (2004-08-28)

  This section needs to be written.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.11 (2003-07-28)

  This release features major work in floating-point functionality,
  macro hygiene, and common-dylan compliance and feature support,
  along with further improvements in introspection support and the
  build system.  We have added some more workarounds for buggy code
  generation in some versions of gcc, and of course we've fixed a few
  of our own bugs too.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.10 (2003-04-12)

  For this release, we have further improved Common Dylan compliance,
  exception reporting, the Melange tool, introspection, and runtime error
  checking.  We have removed the Boehm/Demers/Weiser garbage collector from
  our distribution, and rely on an externally-provided version.  There
  are workarounds for problems encountered with some versions of gcc 3.x.
  Support for the HP/UX PA-RISC platform has been revived, and an alpha
  version of support for the MacOS X Cocoa framework is now included.

  There's a technology demonstration of a Dylan interactor (also known
  as a REPL to the Lisp folks). Try 'd2c -i'.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.9 (2002-10-17)

  Besides the obvious ton of bugfixes, we have now working class and
  each-subclass slots, a rudimentary network library, greatly improved
  common-dylan compliance, better performance, increased
  debuggability, updated documentation and all that. 2.3.9 is probably
  the last unstable release before 2.4. All we want to do before 2.4
  is making all the quality assurance tests pass.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.8 (2002-03-05)

  More bug fixes.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.7 (2002-02-21)
  
  This release mainly fixes a bug in class slots, and is considered
  a maintenance release. Various other tweaks and bugfixes as well.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.6 (2001-11-25)

  The most visible change in 2.3.6 is support for DUIM, a framework
  for user interfaces.  It's supposed to be portable between
  platforms, the version we ship is based on GTK+.  Many thanks to
  Functional Objects, who provided most of their DUIM implementation
  as Open Source to us.  Be warned, our DUIM is still way beta.

  Other changes include ports to MacOS X and Linux on S/390, a ton of
  bugfixes too numerous to mention in detail, support for class slots,
  inlining (non-gf) functions.  Have a look at the ChangeLog for all
  the gory details.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.5 (2001-05-26)

  Some measurable performance and build-time optimizations have been
  incorporated into d2c.  The compiler now supports limited containers,
  and a bug in class variable initialization has been fixed.  The
  Common Dylan library implementation has expanded further, and support
  for the myriad styles of end-of-line delimiters has been strengthened.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.4 (2000-11-30)
  
  The cygnus port created in 2.3.3 has now been integrated into the
  build environment (meaning, there's no special incantations needed
  to compile the cygnus port from a previous revision's port).  The
  file-system library (previously a group of no-ops with some limited
  functionality) is now 75% in compilance with the Common-Dylan
  specification from Functional Objects, inc.  The Time library now
  works on most platforms (including cygnus and solaris, two platforms
  previously not supported).  Melange now optionally creates Dylan-
  style virtual structures that shadow the generated C-style structs.
  This, combined with the new ability for the runtime to provide
  slot names of instances, allows for Dylan-style introspection of
  C-header information.  Various bugfixes, including --no-binaries
  for d2c. Gwydion Dylan now builds fully on MacOS X, and features a
  Carbon interface library with several examples including a full GUI
  application.

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.3 (2000-04-12)

  This release is the first official version that includes MacOS
  support for both mindy and d2c. MacOS X mindy is also
  working. Endless bugs have been fixed, and we're moving towards
  common-dylan compliance (this eventually should give you full source
  code compatibility with Functional Developer).

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.2 (1999-08-25)

  New in this release is shared library support, being made possible
  by Peter Housels C heap generator. 

Gwydion Dylan 2.3.1 (1999-06-08)

  This is the first release of the new development branch. Lots of
  things changed: the build system has been completely revamped by
  Eric Kidd to support bootstrapping under various conditions, the
  instance? test has been made faster by Andreas Bogk, there's an
  OpenBSD port by Brad Dominy, work has been done (but not yet
  finished) on a Harlequin Dylan compatible c-ffi by Peter Housel,
  Eric Kidd started work on replacing melange by pidgin. There's now
  support for Common Dylan (which includes a file-system and an
  operating-system library by Tom Emerson), which should give source
  code compatibility with Harlequin; dig, a debugging frontend to gdb
  which understands Dylan now works on Posix systems, Jeff Dubrule has
  provided a mindy port to Linux on Alpha, Tom Emerson implemented
  Unicode escape in strings, and of course bugs have been fixed by
  various people.

Gwydion Dylan 2.2.0 (1999-02-10)

  This is basically a polished-up 2.1.3, with several more bugfixes.
  It is intended to be a stable release without too much new code
  introduced.

Gwydion Dylan 2.1.3 (1998-12-??)

  This release includes Melange enhancements by Peter Housel, Andreas Bogk
  and Eric Kidd; bug fixes by Andreas Bogk; optimizer fixes by Matthias
  Hoelzl; and a new parse-arguments library (and lots of documentation) by
  Eric Kidd.

Gwydion Dylan 2.1.2 (1998-12-01)

  A feature freeze is now in effect, and only a few critical bugs remain
  before 2.2. This release includes bug fixes by Andreas Bogk, Peter Housel
  and Eric Kidd; the new Dylan table-protocol by Peter Housel; build
  process cleanup by Andreas Bogk and Peter Housel; Cheap-IO enhancements
  by Eric Kidd; and more debugging support by Jeff Dubrule.

Gwydion Dylan 2.1.1 (1998-10-18)

  Dylan is an advanced programming language, similar to Java, but with many
  power-user features borrowed from Common LISP. Gwydion Dylan was written
  by the Gwydion Group at CMU and is now maintained by a group of
  volunteers. This is a beta of Gwydion Dylan 2.2, which will be intended
  to allow people to learn Dylan and write programs for their own personal
  use.  We will soon begin the 2.3 development cycle, with the goal of
  making Gwydion Dylan suitable for day-to-day development of production
  code.

  This release includes many bug fixes by Jeff Dubrule, Andreas Bogk, and
  Peter Housel; a tricky and impressive CSE fix by Matthias Hoelzl; more
  documentation work by Peter Housel and Eric Kidd; major Melange
  improvements by Eric Kidd; a 30% performance improvement to Mindy by
  Pierre de Pascale; more low-level C interface work by Peter Housel; and the
  beginnings of GDB support by Jeff Dubrule.

Gwydion Dylan 2.1 1998-09-16

  This month's snapshot includes a LinuxPPC port by Andreas Bogk, new
  Solaris binaries from Ole Tetlie, C-to-Dylan callback support by Peter
  Housel and a vastly improved Emacs dylan-mode courtesy of Harlequin, Ltd
  (and others). Peter Housel has also worked extensively on cleaning up and
  adding to the documentation.
 
Gwydion Dylan 2.1 1998-08-17

  The current release has been prepared by a group of volunteers. It
  includes improved FreeBSD support and a better build system. It can also
  parse most of the standard Linux C headers and automatically generate
  Dylan interfaces.

Older Releases

  See ONEWS.html for more information about 1.6 and earlier. No release
  info is currently available for Gwydion Dylan	2.0.
