Mindy is an implementation of a language that is very much like the
language described in the Dylan(tm) Reference Manual (DRM).  The name
"Mindy" is derived from "Mindy Is Not Dylan Yet", and as the name
implies, Mindy is incomplete.  Mindy is incomplete for the following
reasons:

   1] We do not implement everything in the DRM.
   2] The DRM does not specify all that Apple(tm) intends Dylan to be.
   3] At present there is no validation procedure for Dylan and no
      procedure for licensing the use of the trademarked Dylan name.

However, Mindy does implement most of what we believe Dylan will be.

Mindy was developed by the Gwydion Project at Carnegie Mellon
University for our own internal use as a development tool while we
work on our "real" high-performance Dylan implementation.  We have
decided to make Mindy available for other people who want to learn
about Dylan.  However, the amount of effort that we can put into
maintaining Mindy is strictly limited.

Mindy will never be an industrial-strength implementation, and nobody
should depend on it for real work.  We will make future releases from
time to time as we add new features and fix bugs, but this is strictly
a sideshow for us.  We would appreciate receiving bug reports
(especially those accompanied by code patches) and suggestions for
improvements, but we may not fix every bug reported in a timely
manner, or fix it at all.  Our work on development of the "real"
Gwydion/Dylan must take precedence.

We hope that nobody will draw any conclusions about the performance of
our future Gwydion/Dylan compiler or the performance attainable in
Dylan from experience using Mindy.  It's not designed to be fast.

Mindy consists of two C programs, a compiler that produces byte-codes
and a byte-code interpreter.  The Mindy release also includes some
rough documentation, various libraries (Streams, Format, Print,
Collection-extensions, String-extensions, and Random-numbers), some
Dylan demos, and a Dylan mode for Gnu-emacs.

There are two versions of Mindy developed by CMU, the Unix version and
the Windows/NT version.  Mindy for Unix has been tested extensively
under MACH on the DECstation and HP-UX on HP 700's.  We have built and
run Mindy, but not tested it extensivly, under Irix, Linux, SunOS,
AIX, Solaris, and Ultrix.  Mindy for Unix does not work on the Alpha.
Installing Mindy for Unix requires an ANSI C compiler and a ''make''
utility.  If you wish to recompile the lexer or parser (they come
pre-compiled to portable C), you will need GNU's Flex and Bison,
respectively.  They can be obtained from
   prep.ai.mit.edu  in the directory pub/gnu

Mindy for Windows/NT is distributed in binary form.  Source code is
available by downloading the Unix version of Mindy.  Mindy/NT runs
under Windows/NT v. 3.5 or later, and requires a file system that
supports long file names (ie HPFS and NTFS, but not FAT).  Mindy/NT
requires tar and GNU Zip (gzip) to unpackage.  To run tar you will
need tar.exe and win32gnu.dll.  To run gzip, get gnubin.tar and use
tar.exe to unpackage it.  Install the GNU utilities contained in
gnubin.tar (gzip is one of these utilities).  These files are
available via anonymous FTP in the same directory as mindyNT.tar.gz.
Recompiling Mindy for Windows/NT requires Microsoft Visual C++ 2.0 and
a ``make'' utility.

You can get Mindy from our public WWW page:
   http://legend.gwydion.cs.cmu.edu:8001/gwydion/
You can also get Mindy by anonymous ftp from
legend.gwydion.cs.cmu.edu in the following files:
   /afs/cs.cmu.edu/project/gwydion/release/mindy.tar.gz    (Unix version)
   /afs/cs.cmu.edu/project/gwydion/release/mindyNT.tar.gz  (Windows/NT version)

You must cd in one command line to the directory containing
mindy.tar.gz due to security measures at CMU.  Questions, comments,
and suggestions should go to "gwydion-bugs@cs.cmu.edu"

Third parties independently maintain ports for the Macintosh and for
OS/2, and may or may not reflect the latest CMU release.  Questions
about these programs should go to their maintainers, not to the
Gwydion Project.

Mindy for the Macintosh is maintained by Patrick Beard
(beard@apple.com), and is available via anonymous ftp from ftp.bdt.com
in the directory
	/home/beard/

Mindy for OS/2 is maintained by Patrick Premont
(premont@cs.utoronto.ca), and is available via anonymous ftp from
hobbes.nmsu.edu in the directory
	/os2/unix/

NOTE: MINDY IS MADE AVAILABLE WITHOUT CHARGE ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS.
NEITHER THE AUTHORS NOR CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY OFFER ANY WARRANTY
WHATSOEVER CONCERNING THIS SOFTWARE, ITS PERFORMANCE, ITS USABILITY,
OR ITS CONFORMITY TO ANY SPECIFICATION.

Have fun and hope you enjoy,
Gwydion Project
